[RF-DOCS] Rewrite the Asset Pipeline Guide (#57181)
rails/rails: guides/source/asset_pipeline.md

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What the Rails asset pipeline does.
* What Propshaft is and how it serves CSS, JavaScript, and other assets.

> * What Subresource Integrity is and how Propshaft leverages it.

Reviewer: Is Subresource Integrity such an important topic it deserves to be listed here? I think the points we list here should somewhat mirror the top sections.
So I'd expect "Serving Assets" as a list item instead of "Subresource Intergrity".

Author: Yep I agree, updated.

* How Propshaft integrates with other libraries which transpile and bundle JavaScript and CSS.
* How to use a CDN to deliver production assets.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is the Asset Pipeline?
---------------------------

The Rails asset pipeline is responsible for transforming, caching, and
serving static assets such as JavaScript, CSS, and image files.

The asset pipeline takes a source file, adds a _fingerprint_ (also called a _digest_) to the filename, and places it in the `public/assets/` folder for delivery. It may also preprocess source file before fingerprinting — for example, CSS and JavaScript files may be transpiled and bundled.

<br><br>

![Asset Pipeline Flow Diagram](images/asset_pipeline/asset_pipeline_flow_diagram.png)

<br><br>

> Here's an example of how the asset pipeline links a stylesheet in an HTML document:

Reviewer: It could be a bit confusing to new comers what Rails does and what the Asset Pipeline computes.
Maybe make it more explicit?
```suggestion
Here's an example of how the asset pipeline computes the path to a stylesheet:
```

> Here's an example of how the asset pipeline links a stylesheet in an HTML document:
> 
> ```erb
> <%= stylesheet_link_tag "application", media: "all" %>
> ```
> 
> ```html
> <link rel="stylesheet" href="assets/application-55f8f81.css" media="all" />
> ```

Reviewer: It might be a bit confusing for new comers that the `stylesheet_link_tag` generates the resulting HTML.
Maybe explain that it results in the render HTML?
````suggestion
```erb
<%# app/views/layouts/application.html.erb %>
<%= stylesheet_link_tag "application", media: "all" %>
```

This will render as follows:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="assets/application-55f8f81.css" media="all" />
```
````

Or maybe flatten it in a single example?
````suggestion
```ruby
stylesheet_link_tag("application", media: "all")
=> "<link rel=\"stylesheet\" href=\"assets/application-55f8f81.css\" media=\"all\" />"
```
````

Author: I prefer the separate example structure. Updated.

The above example demonstrates a _fingerprint_ or _digest_ in the filename (`55f8f81`). This is calculated by running the file's contents through a [cryptographic hash function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function) — hence, when its contents change, the filename also changes. This allows for an aggressive caching strategy as stale assets will never be served.

> The core component of the Rails asset pipeline is [**Propshaft**](https://github.com/rails/propshaft). Propshaft is responsible for reading source assets, fingerprinting them, and placing them in the `public/` folder. It **DOES NOT** do any transpiling or bundling. Other gems need to be plugged into Propshaft for this functionality. See [Advanced CSS and JavaScript Management](#advanced-css-and-javascript-management) below.

Reviewer: Here we already start introducing Propshaft. Maybe we should start the "Propshaft" section here?

Author: I've moved it a bit higher, just after the note on HTTP/2 below. I'd like to keep it there because I want the reader to have at least a vague idea of what "Propshaft" is before they see the heading.

NOTE: The advent of HTTP/2 has reduced the need for bundling JavaScript and CSS into a single file. Multiple files can be served in parallel over a single connection, meaning these files can be served as-is with minimal performance overhead.

[Propshaft](https://github.com/rails/propshaft) is included in all new Rails applications.
It can be excluded using `--skip-asset-pipeline` flag:

```bash
$ rails new app_name --skip-asset-pipeline
```

NOTE: Before Rails 8, the asset pipeline was powered by [Sprockets](https://github.com/rails/sprockets). You can read about the [Sprockets Asset Pipeline](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v7.2/asset_pipeline.html) in previous versions of the Rails Guides. A migration guide [is available here](https://github.com/rails/propshaft/blob/main/UPGRADING.md).

> Propshaft

Reviewer: For the Caching and Active Jobs guide, we specifically name the defaults: "Default Store: Solid Cache" and "Default Backend: Solid Queue". This clarifies what "Solid Cache" and "Solid Queue" are for newcomers.

Maybe we could do that here as well, although it's not that easy to switch to another pipeline.
Also is importmap-rails considered part of the default pipeline?
```suggestion
Default Pipeline: Propshaft
```

Author: I don't think Propshaft is comparable to Solid Cache and Solid Queue. Those plug into adapters provided by Rails for other backends.

The concept of an Asset Pipeline is specific to Rails. You can't "plug in" another pipeline, you'd be assembling your own somehow, probably using a set of JS tools, which is not an approach we should be considering for this guide.

I guess in a way `importmap-rails` could be considered part of the default pipeline. But that again goes to show that the pipeline is made up of different things, it's not "pluggable" so I don't think we need to mention that it's the "default".

Reviewer: There still is sprockets, but I agree that new Rails apps should not use it as an alternative.

When using [Turbo](https://turbo.hotwired.dev) (which is included in Rails by default), add the `data-turbo-track` attribute. This [tracks the asset between page loads](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/drive#reloading-when-assets-change) and reloads it if it changes.

```erb
<%= stylesheet_link_tag "application", "data-turbo-track": "reload" %>
```

#### JavaScript

Include JavaScript using the `javascript_include_tag` helper method.

```erb
<%= javascript_include_tag "application" %>
```
```html
<script src="/assets/application-5bcb24fe.js"></script>
```

This mechanism only works for single, isolated JavaScript files. Rails uses a [JavaScript import map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/script/type/importmap) by default to simplify the management of multiple JavaScript files. See the section on [using an import map](#javascript-import-map) below.

#### Images and Files

Load images using the `image_path` helper:

> ```erb

Reviewer: It would be nice if we could show the resulting HTML of the `image_tag` and `image_path` here as well.

Author: Good idea, done

  [ESBuild](https://esbuild.github.io).
- Are able to serve assets over HTTP/2.

### Bundling and Transpiling JavaScript

If your application's JavaScript requires a _build_ step, use the [`jsbundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) gem.

It supports a number of builders such as [Bun](https://bun.sh),
[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), [rollup.js](https://rollupjs.org/), and
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/). See the [Readme](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails/blob/main/README.md) for further details.

The output from your chosen builder will be written to `app/assets/builds/` where Propshaft will pick it up for fingerprinting and delivery.

Include `jsbundling-rails` with one of the supported builders in a new Rails app using:

```
$ rails new myapp -j [bun|esbuild|rollup|webpack]
```

#### Using `jsbundling-rails`

Install `jsbundling-rails` to configure your desired builder:

```
$ bundle add jsbundling-rails
$ bin/rails javascript:install:[bun|esbuild|rollup|webpack]
```

This will configure a `package.json` file and set up a `build` script within it. Your can now use your chosen builder to manage your JavaScript.

> NOTE: Use `bin/dev` to run your server in development. This will invoke the `build` script with the `--watch` flag so your JavaScript updates automatically when you edit your files.

Reviewer: Maybe use a [TIP ](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/ruby_on_rails_guides_guidelines.html#tip)here instead, as `bin/dev` is not necessarily relevant to the understanding of `jsbundling-rails` 
```suggestion
TIP: Use `bin/dev` to run your server in development. This will invoke the `build` script with the `--watch` flag so your JavaScript updates automatically when you edit your files.
```

This will reduce the overhead of checking for file updates and improve
performance during development.

### Assets In Production

In production, Rails serves assets with caching enabled to optimize performance,
ensuring that your application can handle high traffic efficiently.

#### Precompiling Assets

Procompilation processes all assets through the asset pipeline and writes them to the `public/assets/` directory, ready to be served. It's typically run during deployment to production to ensure that the latest versions of the assets are served.

To invoke precompilation, run:

```bash
$ RAILS_ENV=production rails assets:precompile
```

When precompiling assets for production as part of a build step that does not need access to the production secrets, set the `SECRET_KEY_BASE_DUMMY` [environment variable][] to any value. This will trigger the use of a randomly generated [`secret_key_base`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Application.html#method-i-secret_key_base) that’s stored in a temporary file.

[environment variable]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable

```bash
$ RAILS_ENV=production SECRET_KEY_BASE_DUMMY=1 rails assets:precompile
```

> WARNING: When precompiled assets are present in the development environmnemt, the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: When precompiled assets are present in the development environment, the application
```

}
```

Using A CDN to Serve Assets
---------------------------

CDN stands for [Content Delivery
Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_delivery_network). A CDN caches assets in _nodes_
all over the world. When a browser requests an asset, a cached copy will be served from a node
geographically close to it.

It's best practice to place a CDN in front of your Rails application to serve assets in production.

### An Overview of a CDN

A CDN sits _in front_ of your Rails application and is accessed via its own URL
(usually a subdomain on your application's domain name). The CDN's "origin" server is set to
your Rails application.

When a browser requests an asset from the CDN and the file isn't cached, it will request the file
from your server and cache it.

For example, if your Rails application is running at `example.com`
and your CDN is configured at `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com`, then when a
request is made to `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com/assets/smile.png`, the CDN

> will query your server once at `yourrailsapp.com/assets/smile.png` and cache the

Reviewer: If the app runs at `example.com` the CDN will also call `example.com`:
```suggestion
will query your server once at `example.com/assets/smile.png` and cache the
```

Author: Whoops, typo. Changed the earlier mention of `example.com` to `yourrailsapp.com` to make the domain name more descriptive.

Reviewer: We try to use example.com through out the guides. Someone might register `yourrailsapp.com` and host malware or abuse it for SEO purposes.

request.

The next request to the CDN that comes in to the same URL will return the
cached copy. When an asset exists in the CDN cache, the request never touches
your Rails server. Since the cache is geographically close to the request's origin,
the CDN fulfills the request faster than your Rails server. It also reduces
the load on your application server.

### Configuring the CDN

To set up CDN, your application needs to be running in production on the
internet at a publicly available URL.

Next, you'll need to sign up for a CDN service from a cloud hosting provider.
Configure the "origin" of the CDN to point back at your Rails application's URL.
Check your provider for documentation on configuring the origin server.

The CDN you provisioned should give you a custom subdomain for your application

> such as `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com` (you can also use a CNAME DNS record to point at the CDN from a subdomain of your main application. For example: `assets.yourrailsapp.com` can point at `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com` using a CNAME DNS record).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com` (you can also use a CNAME DNS record to point at the CDN from a subdomain of your main application. For example: `assets.example.com` can point at `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com` using a CNAME DNS record).
```

> such as `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com` (you can also use a CNAME DNS record to point at the CDN from a subdomain of your main application. For example: `assets.yourrailsapp.com` can point at `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com` using a CNAME DNS record).

Reviewer: If we add dashes to the top-level domain, we can add them to the subdomain as well, for readability (this would need to be changed in more places)
```suggestion
such as `my-cdn-subdomain.fictional-cdn.com` (you can also use a CNAME DNS record to point at the CDN from a subdomain of your main application. For example: `assets.yourrailsapp.com` can point at `my-cdn-subdomain.fictional-cdn.com` using a CNAME DNS record).
```

    configuring.html#config-action-controller-asset-host
[`config.asset_host`]: configuring.html#config-asset-host

#### The `Cache-Control` Header

The [`Cache-Control`][] header describes how a request can be cached. When no
CDN is used, a browser will use this information to cache contents. Generally we want
our Rails server to tell our CDN (and browser) that the asset is "public". Also we want to
set `max-age` which is how long the cache will store the object before invalidating the cache.
The `max-age` value is set to seconds with a maximum possible value of `31536000`, which is one year

> because the figerprinted filename ensure stale assets are never served.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because the fingerprinted filename ensures stale assets are never served.
```
